Exception - It is a situation in a program where abnormal termination of codes takes place due to some unwanted situations or Syntax error within the 
            code. 

            The error caused is of two types: - 
            Compile time error : When the error which is recognised at the time of compilation of the code,then it is reffered to as Compile
                                 time error,it is basically a syntactiacal error.
            Runtime error : When the program abnormally terminates after compilation at Runtime due to some memory,arithmatic or other type 
                            of Exception then is reffered to as runtime error.

Exception Handling : It is the technique which we apply within a program to handle some known or expected Exception's in order to prevent the
                     abnormal termination of the program.


                     Methods for Exception Handling (Try - Catch):-
                     Try  -> Throw -> Catch 


                     within this we keep the block of code which tends to give exception within the Try block.
                     By the help of throw keyword we pass the type of exception to the catch block argument.It can be either a integer,string,etc.
                     And then by the use of catch block we handle the exception (basically specify(print) the occurence of error within program).
                     Try block should have atleast one catch block along with try block.It can have multiple catch block so that we can handle multiple
                     exception by the use of single try block.

                     Syntax

                    try{
                        //block of code which contains the the code which could genrate an error.

                        throw textMessage/integer etc.
                    }

                    catch(Argument/throwed argument of same datatype/ ...){
                        //code in order to do after the error has occured.
                    }



                    Note : (i) The Argument within the catch block basically contains the throwed integer value/char/textMessage by the throw keyword
                           within the try block or a funtion which used throw keyword.

                           (ii) If we place "..." three dots within the catch block argument then the catch block would
                           handle any type of exception and if we dont do so then the specified type of argument datatype is checked
                           by the catch block and then the catch block is executed.
                           
                           (iii) If we are using multiple catch block then make sure to keep the defaut /"..." three dot argument
                                 catch block at the end of other catch blocks oe the defaut catch block will always be executed
                                 ignoring the other blocks.


                            